The pilot and his passengers departed for an evening dinner flight to another town about 48 miles away .
The pilot requested VFR advisories en route , but did not request MSAW monitoring .
The initially selected cruise altitude was 2,500 feet msl .
He requested a heading to his destination , which was provided by approach control .
About 3 minutes later , he was told his destination airport was at 12 o'clock and 8 miles , which he acknowledged .
About 1 minute later , radio and radar contact was lost and an ELT signal was received by the local center .
According to radar data , during the last 6 minutes of flight the airplane descended from 1,800 feet msl to 1,300 feet with no altitude for the last five radar hits .
The airplane collided with a power line on a ridge line at 1,300 feet msl , about 6 miles from the destination airport .
The pilot had received an abbreviated weather briefing for the dark night flight .
Witnesses reported that stratus clouds were obscuring the ridge line at the time of the accident .

The helicopter pilot took off at night on a positioning flight for an emergency medical service -LRB- EMS -RRB- operation .
There were reports of a low overcast layer varying from 1,000 feet above ground level to the surface .
The majority of the witnesses reported that the helicopter was flying low as it traveled over the ground and continued over water toward a nearby island .
Subsequently , the helicopter collided with the water and sank .
Several of the witnesses reported that the engine sounded normal until the helicopter crashed .
Some witnesses reported a ` popping ' sound or a ` laboring ' sound from the engines ; however , after the engines were recovered at a later date , no evidence of a preimpact mechanical failure or malfunction was found .
Local residents reported that the water condition at the time of the accident was ` calm ' or ` glassy . '
Several small pieces of the fuselage and main rotor blades were found floating on the surface of the water .
Examination revealed that 3 of the main rotor blades had separated approximately three feet out from the attach points .
The fourth blade separated approximately seven feet out from the attach point ; however , the blade was bent and cracked chordwise approximately three feet out from the attach point .
Using side scan sonar , wreckage was found over a distance of approximately 600 feet .
The landing gear was found in the extended position , and the engine power levers were found in the flight position .
Also , torsional evidence was found on the tail rotor driveshaft .

The surviving rear seat passenger\/photographer -LRB- pax -RRB- stated that during a preflight briefing , the pilot indicated that they would fly by a cottage at reduced airspeed and at about 500 feet agl , then they would climb to a higher altitude for more photographs .
The pax stated that after they flew by the cottage , he did not hear an application of power to climb as expected .
The pax noted their low altitude over the mountainous\/hilly terrain , and ` yelled ' for the pilot to climb to avoid trees .
The pax said the pilot did not respond , but was leaning forward as if to be trying to read or reach something .
The airplane impacted trees and fell to the ground .
Witnesses on the ground stated that an airplane flew overhead at a low altitude .
One witness stated the engine sounded as if it was sputtering ; another stated that it was noisy and loud for a small airplane .
Postaccident examination revealed no preimpact mechanical anomaly ; chordwise scrape marks were found on the propeller blades .
The temperature and dew point were 72 and 47 degrees F , respectively .
According to icing probability charts , weather conditions were conducive for the formation of carburetor ice .
The carburetor heat control was found in the ` in ' position , but the engine had become detached during impact , possibly moving the carburetor heat control as it separated from the firewall .

During cruise flight at 14,000 feet mean sea level , the engine failed .
The flight was vectored to a nearby airport but the pilot flew toward another airport and crashed in a residential area .
Examination of the engine revealed 1.8 quarts of oil were drained and 3 of the 6 connecting rods were failed due to lack of lubrication .
Also , detonation damage to the No. 6 cylinder piston was noted and scoring of piston sidewalls was noted at 5 of the 6 cylinders .
Evidence of heat discoloration was noted to the connecting rod journals for 3 of the 6 cylinders .
The aircraft TIT gauge , which had been miscalibrated by 30 to 40 degrees when the airplane was manufactured , was found to indicate 110 degrees Fahrenheit low near the maximum continuous point of 1,750 degrees .
The air\/oil separator hose to the scavenge pump was plugged about 10 inches along its length with a substance with a high lead content resulting in the recurring pilot report of excessive oil consumption .
Due to the pilot complaint of excessive oil consumption 4 of the 6 cylinders were removed and replaced within the previous 6 months .
About 1 month before the accident one of the cylinder pistons was removed and replaced after examination revealed piston sidewall damage consistent with detonation .

An instrument flight instructor -LRB- CFII -RRB- and an instrument rated private pilot were on a dual purpose mission to obtain an instrument compentency check along with a business flight .
The pilots reported that they noted evidence of carburetor ice during the flight ; therefore , as they began their descent to the destination , they elected to use carburetor heat throughout the remainder of the flight .
The pilots reported that as they initiated a missed approach procedure , the airplane engine began to lose power .
They began maneuvering for an emergency landing , then the engine lost power completely .
The CFII took control of the airplane and maneuvered the airplane to avoid a treeline during the landing .
Subsequently , the airplane struck the ground in a snow covered field , while in a right wing low attitude .
Both pilots stated that they believed the loss of engine power was due to carburetor ice .
However , they were flying in conditions of snow , and 23 miles south at Zanesville , OH , the temperature and dew point were reported to be 19 and 14 degrees F , respectively .
According to icing probability charts , conditions were marginally conducive -LRB- borderline -RRB- for carburetor ice .
Postaccident engine examination and a test run revealed no evidence of a preimpact mechanical malfunction .

The pilot reported that as he overflew the Tri-City airport , Tennessee at 9,000 feet , the right engine power slowly decreased .
The airplane was in the clouds with an outside air temperature of about zero degrees Celsius .
Right engine manifold heat was applied for a few seconds , with no noticeable difference in engine performance .
The right magnetos were also checked with no obvious malfunctions noted .
A descent for landing was initiated to the Tri-City airport and manifold heat was applied and removed several times , with no appreciable effect .
On short final approach , when the landing gear was extended , the right main gear did not indicate down .
There was insufficient time to perform the emergency gear extension procedure .
A go-around was initiated , during which the pilot discovered that the left manifold heat control was now stuck in the ` ON ' position .
The pilot stated that with less than full power available on the left engine , and the right propeller unfeathered , the airplane could be climbed to about 200 feet .
He flew the airplane until terrain clearance was no longer possible , then landed in a field , gear up .
The airplane slid into trees and was substantially damaged .

Earlier on the day of the accident , the airplane was being operated on the ground , when the main landing gear was inadvertently retracted .
The airplane settled on its tail ; however , the propellers did not touch the ground .
The engines were shut down , and the occupants deplaned .
The airplane was raised , and the gear was extended .
The airplane was inspected , which included removal of the side and rear panels in the vicinity of the stabilator and rudder .
A ferry permit was issued for flight to another airport where repairs could be made , with the restriction that the landing gear remain extended .
The pilot departed on the flight , and after takeoff , he requested to return for a landing with no reason given .
The airplane was observed to turn crosswind and then downwind , where it subsequently descended in a wings level attitude below the level of surrounding terrain , after which black smoke was observed .
Impact occurred on the side of a hill , and debris was strewn 267 feet .
Examination of the propellers and engines did not disclose evidence of a mechanical malfunction .
There was no evidence of a jam in the rudder or elevator flight controls .
The rudder trim and manual elevator trim were collocated .
In addition , the airplane was equipped with an electric elevator trim .
The rudder trim was found in neutral , and the elevator trim was found full nose down .
The forward portion of the cockpit was crushed and no evidence of a pre-existing failure was found .

The passenger reported that the flight was delayed a day due to weather , and that she was scheduled to attend a class at the destination the day of the accident .
Prior to departure , icing advisories were issued to the pilot for his route of flight ; temperatures aloft ranging from -6 to -8 degrees C. The pilot advised the passenger of icing conditions prior to departure , and reassured her they could deviate if those conditions were encountered .
During the flight , in IMC at 9,000 feet , the pilot radioed that he had a partial loss of engine power , and requested vectors to the nearest airport .
Columbus Approach initially provided a vector to an airport about 12.5 miles northeast , within gliding range .
Approach also thought the airport would be VFR , and that the flight would be aided with a tailwind .
The flight was then vectored to an airport about 17.5 miles southwest , which was IFR and had several pilot reports of icing conditions .
Several minutes later Columbus Approach provided a vector back to the initial airport northeast , followed shortly thereafter by a vector to a third airport about 12.5 miles southeast .
The airplane crashed about 6 miles from the third airport .
Inspection of the spark plug electrodes revealed a condition consistent with a rich mixture .
One half-inch-thick pieces of ice , matching the leading edges of the wings , were observed in the vicinity of the wreckage .
The airplane was not approved for icing conditions .
The ATC handbook stated that certain weather phenomenon may deserve weighted consideration when recommending an emergency airport ; the pilot may elect to fly further to an airport with VFR conditions .

The certified flight instructor -LRB- CFI -RRB- and the private pilot , her husband , had flown a previous flight that day and practiced maneuvers at altitude .
After a refueling stop , they departed for another training flight .
The private pilot performed two practice power off landings from the downwind to runway 18 .
During a third practice forced landing , with the landing gear extended , the CFI took over the controls .
When the airplane developed a high sink rate during the turn to final , the CFI realized that the airplane was low and slow .
The CFI stated that she advanced the throttle , but the engine did not respond .
The airplane 's right wing struck a 25-foot-high pole at the edge of an open field , about 12 feet above the ground and 900 feet from the approach end on the runway .
The private pilot stated that during the approach he thought that they were getting ` too slow and too low , ' and when full power was applied the engine response ` sounded strange . '
Examination of the wreckage revealed no preimpact failure of the airframe or engine .

While operating in clouds at flight level 290 , in an area with thunderstorms and turbulence , the airplane experienced a loss of power in all four engines .
Information from the flight data recorder indicated that during descent from flight level 290 , an elevator oscillation occurred .
The # 1 and # 2 engines were shut down due to high turbine gas temperatures .
The # 2 engine was restarted before making an emergency landing at the Des Moines Airport .
The captain reported that the airplane had been flown into severe icing conditions .
The aircraft flight manual -LRB- AFM -RRB- prohibited flight in icing conditions above 26,000 feet -LRB- except when necessary for descent -RRB- .
Also , the AFM stipulated the minimum engine speeds which needed to be maintained while operating in icing conditions ; it also required that the thrust management system -LRB- TMS -RRB- be disconnected in icing conditions .
There were indications that the TMS was disconnected about 230 seconds after engine roll-back began .
Additionally , the AFM did not provide accurate information concerning ` in cloud ' correction factor for the outside temperature thermometer .

The airplane impacted the northwest facing slope of a ridge at an elevation of 1,950 feet MSL , while configured for cruise flight .
This occurred as the noninstrument-rated private pilot was returning home on a night VFR flight over hilly and sparsely populated terrain .
Low ceilings prevailed throughout the area .
The pilot 's instructor stated that the pilot knew the area well , and that he was aware of the rising terrain .
The flight instructor recalled that he talked to the pilot on the afternoon of the accident , and after discussing the worsening weather conditions , he encouraged the pilot to stay in Del Rio that night .
The pilot was in real estate business .
The flight instructor believed the pilot felt pressured to get home that evening , because he had a nine o'clock appointment the next morning in Austin to inspect a property that he had sold .
The flaps and landing gear were found in the retracted position .
The elevator trim was found in the neutral position .
No evidence of preimpact mechanical failure or malfunction was found .

The first pilot -LRB- PIC -RRB- and his father , the second pilot , shared the duties of a preflight inspection on the airplane in preparation to perform some touch-and-go landings .
The second pilot visually checked both fuel tanks and noted that the left tank was low .
He stated that he had mentioned this to the first pilot , and the first pilot did not ` carefully note . '
The first pilot selected the left tank for the flight because the left fuel quantity gauge was erroneously indicating a full tank .
During the third touch-and-go takeoff , the engine was starved of fuel and suddenly lost all power about 300 feet above the ground .
The second pilot , who was also a CFI , immediately took the controls , banked the airplane to the right to avoid trees , and force landed the airplane into an open corn field .
The right wing struck the ground during the landing and the airplane nosed over .
No preimpact mechanical deficiencies were found with the engine .
An examination of the left cockpit fuel quantity gauge revealed that the needle was captured between a deformed face plate and a sticky substance found beneath the glass .
The source of the deformation and substance could not be determined .

The pilot reported that he entered the field and felt a ` hard right hand pressure that he could not correct . '
The pilot next remembers that the ` stick suddenly went sloppy . '
The airplane flew over a row of 30 to 40 foot high trees and impacted the ground with the right wing low .
A witness , in the first field , reported that she heard a loud ` pop , ' and she looked up to see the airplane flying southeast across the field .
She stated that the airplane was ` corkscrewing all the way around , maybe 3 or 4 times , before it went over the tree-line and out of sight . '
She further stated that ` one wing was bent 90 degrees in half -LRB- at the midway point -RRB- . '
Another witness reported that he saw the airplane coming over the trees with ` something hanging down under the left wing at about the midpoint -LRB- like a support brace -RRB- . '
The witness further stated that ` at the same midpoint area of the left wing , he noticed that the leading edge was funny or something was flapping around . '
Postcrash examination of the wreckage revealed the left wing leading edge was found crushed aft to the spar at the midpoint and the left wing spray boom was dented\/bent approximately 2.5 feet inboard from the outboard end .

The newly certificated private pilot , a recent high school graduate , had two friends from his high school aboard .
Before the accident , the aircraft was seen maneuvering at low airspeed and altitude in the vicinity of one of the passengers ' houses .
A flight instructor-qualified witness reported that at about 40 feet above ground level , the aircraft entered a steep turn of more than 80 degrees bank , and that the nose then dropped steeply and the aircraft crashed .
The crash site was 3\/8 mile east of the front seat passenger 's house .
This passenger 's brother reported that he was talking with the front seat passenger on a cell phone at the time of the accident .
He stated that the passenger instructed his brother to come out on the deck of the house because they were going to fly over .
When the brother told the passenger he had not seen the aircraft , the passenger told his brother to wait on the deck while the aircraft turned around and came back over .
During an on-scene examination of the aircraft wreckage , investigators found no evidence of preimpact aircraft mechanical problems .

During the night instructional flight in which a steep climb was initiated after takeoff , the aircraft descended near vertical , impacted trees and terrain .
A post impact fire and explosion ensued .
Witnesses reported that the airplane lifted off the runway , accelerated as it remained in ground effect , and near the departure end of the runway , climbed in a vertical attitude , banked , and then descended .
Local authorities and the flight instructor 's students had previously observed the flight instructor perform this maneuver in single-engine high-wing aircraft .
The flight instructor had 17.1 hours in this low wing single engine aircraft including one night flight -LRB- 1.5 hours -RRB- with takeoffs and landings .
Physical evidence at the site indicated that the airplane impacted the ground in a nose low attitude in a left bank .
The gear and flaps were in the retracted configuration .
No evidence of any pre-impact mechanical anomalies were found .
Flight control continuity was established .
The stabilator up cable was found severed due to arcing and tensile overload .

The aircraft lost power while on approach approximately 9 miles south of the airport .
Subsequently , it nosed over during a landing in tall grass .
The hobbs meter showed the duration of flight to be a total of 3.1 hours .
The aircraft held 26 total gallons of fuel , with 22.5 usable .
The second pilot reported to the mechanic\/owner that they ` were flying at about 110 MPH , they were not at altitude , and they did little leaning . '
According to the Cessna Pilot Operating Handbook -LRB- POH -RRB- for the 150L , the aircraft will burn approximately 7 gallons per hour at 2,500 feet msl with full power and using 92 percent horsepower .
The POH specifies the total range to be 3.2 hours for those specific conditions .
No fuel was found remaining in or around the aircraft after the accident , and the surrounding vegetation did not show signs of fuel spillage .
Neither pilot reported how fuel quantity was verified or how much fuel they had on board before departure .
The engine was examined by a licensed airframe and powerplant mechanic , who found no discrepancies .

While en route , the pilot called ATC and amended his final destination .
The airplane was at 5,000 feet in the vicinity of the original destination when ATC instructed the pilot to climb and maintain 6,000 .
Shortly thereafter , the pilot reported a loss of engine power .
The pilot was advised the airport was at his 6 o'clock position and 5 miles .
The controller repeatedly instructed the pilot to ' ... turn around ... ' and ' ... make a left turn around ... ' to a heading of 020 degrees .
The pilot asked for the heading and it was repeated by the controller .
The pilot acknowledged ' ... 020 . '
When the controller asked if the pilot could turn to a heading of 020 the pilot responded , ` I 'm heading 220 ... ' The airplane collided with terrain approximately 10 miles from the airport .
Examination of the pilot 's logbook revealed approximately 117 hours of flight experience in the 6 years prior to the accident .
The pilot was not current for IFR flight .
The pilot 's CFI stated he recommended instrument proficiency training to the pilot 6 months prior to the accident .
The airplane was in cruise flight in conditions conducive to serious icing at cruise power .

When the pilot failed to arrive for his brother 's college graduation , concerned family members reported that he and his airplane were missing .
A search was initiated , and the Civil Air Patrol located the airplane on top of Pine Mountain .
According to the pilot 's personal flight log , his intended destination was Pensacola , FL , with intermediate stops for fuel at Thomson , GA , and Greenville , AL. .
Airport personal at Thomson confirmed that the airplane landed about 1630 on 11\/6\/97 .
They reported that the pilot purchased 26.5 gallons of 100LL fuel and departed about 1700 .
Witnesses at the Thomson Airport stated that when he took off , the weather was marginal VFR and deteriorating rapidly .
Witnesses near Pine Mountain stated that the visibility at the time of the accident was about 1\/4 mile in haze\/fog .
About 15 miles south of the accident site at Columbus , GA , the weather was , in part : 400 feet broken , 1200 feet overcast , visibility 4 miles with haze .
Elevation at Columbus was 394 feet ; elevation of the accident site was 1190 feet with 100 to 150 foot trees covering the mountain .
The airplane impacted trees about 50 feet above the ground .
Estimated time of the accident was 1845 -LRB- at about the time darkness was falling -RRB- .

The pilot was on a return flight via the same route when the accident occurred .
Recorded radar data revealed two transponder-equipped airplanes .
The first target , the accident airplane , was tracked between 1902:51 and 1904:07 , flying in a southeast-to-northwest direction at an encoded altitude of 12,600 feet mean sea level -LRB- msl -RRB- .
The second airplane , an unidentified aircraft squawking a transponder code of 1200 , was tracked between 1907:00 and 1912:07 , flying in a northwest-to-southeast direction at an encoded altitude of 13,600 feet msl .
The unidentified airplane was estimated to have been 14 miles from the accident airplane at the time of the accident .
At 1904 , the accident airplane disappeared from the radarscope .
No distress calls were received .
Between 1906 and 1926 , the controller tried to reestablish radio contact with the pilot , but to no avail .
Search and rescue operations were initiated , and the wreckage was located the following afternoon .
According to the metallurgist 's factual report , the left wing , right horizontal stabilator , and vertical stabilizer spar fractures were ` consistent with overstress separations ' and failed under ` negative loading . '
There was no evidence of ` preexisting cracking such as fatigue or stress corrosion . '
Dark night visual meteorological conditions prevailed at the time of the accident .

The pilot said he did not visually check the fuel but ` stuck his finger in the fuel tank and felt fuel ' -LRB- in his accident report , however , he said he visually inspected the fuel -RRB- .
He departed North Las Vegas Airport .
When the airplane was approximately 18 miles west of Grand Junction , the engine lost power , forcing the pilot to land in an onion field .
The airplane struck a pile of onions and nosed over .
The pilot said there was 62 gallons of fuel on board the airplane .
According to the Airplane Owner 's Manual , standard tanks hold 65 gallons -LRB- 58 gallons usable -RRB- .
The pilot said he cruised at 9,500 feet msl , used a power setting of 18-19 inches of manifold pressure and 2300 rpm , and leaned the mixture .
According to the Cessna 207 cruise performance chart for 10,000 feet , the engine should have developed between 48 and 51 percent of its rated horsepower -LRB- 300 hp -RRB- and consumed between 10.3 and 11.0 gallons of fuel per hour .
This would give the airplane a range of 695 miles and an endurance of between 5.3 and 5.6 hours .
The pilot 's accident report indicates the airplane had been aloft approximately 2 hours , 45 minutes .
An FAA inspector who examined the airplane at the accident site said the airplane had been inverted prior to his arrival .
When the airplane was placed upright , he found no evidence of fuel in the fuel tanks , fuel stains on the ground , or fuel dye stains on the wings .
There was no odor of fuel in the area .
The pilot said that although he had flown other Cessna single engine airplanes , this was his first experience flying the Cessna 207 .

The pilot took off from Bassett , Nebraska , in a misty , light rain , at about 1930 central standard time -LRB- cst -RRB- , en route to Valentine , Nebraska -LSB- 60 miles away -RSB- .
At approximately 2100 cst , the airport manager at Valentine received a telephone call from the pilot 's sister , inquiring as to her brother 's whereabouts .
The airport manager called the fixed base operator at Bassett .
The pilot 's sister contacted the Cherry County , Nebraska , Sheriff 's Department , and reported the pilot missing .
The Nebraska Wing of the Civil Air Patrol -LRB- CAP -RRB- , began an aerial search for the pilot 's airplane at 2240 cst .
The search was terminated 30 minutes later , when the CAP pilot began picking up ice on the airplane at 1,000 feet above ground level -LRB- agl -RRB- .
The aerial search was re-convened the following morning .
The wreckage was found at approximately 0830 cst .
The Aviation Routine Weather Report -LRB- METAR -RRB- station at Ainsworth , Nebraska , at 1952 cst , reported an overcast ceiling of 3,400 and 10 miles visibility .
The sheriff , who was part of the ground search the night of the accident , described the weather as being a mixture of freezing drizzle , rain , and snow , with low clouds and low ceilings .
On arrival at the accident site the following day , the sheriff said that he felt ice on the surface of one of the airplane 's wings .
Examination of the wreckage revealed no anomalies .

The non-instrument rated private helicopter pilot encountered fog and low ceilings while en route on a 132 mile VFR cross country flight .
Witnesses near the accident site reported observing the helicopter in a nose down attitude and hearing the sound of impact with trees .
Visibility in the vicinity of the accident site was reported by several witnesses to be as low as 100 feet and as high as 1\/4 of a mile .
The ceiling was obscured due to fog .
Residents in the area reported that fog has a tendency to form that time of the year around sunrise .
Physical evidence and signatures at the accident site indicate that the helicopter impacted the trees and terrain in a 45 degree nose low attitude in a slight right turn .
The accident occurred at 0807 local time and sunrise occurred at 0619 .
The pilot had accumulated a total of 187 flight hours .
No evidence of pre-impact mechanical failure or malfunction was observed at the accident site .
No anomalies were found during the investigation that could have prevented normal flight operation .

Witnesses reported the engine sounded normal during the takeoff roll and that the airplane rotated normally .
Witnesses reported the airplane climbed to about 100 to 200 feet when the engine revved up ` really high ' to what sounded like 1,000 RPM 's higher than normal takeoff power .
A witness reported the airplane went into a 60 degree left bank , and then the airplane turned right into an 80 degrees nose dive .
The airplane went straight down and did not spin .
The stall speed of the airplane was 50 mph .
The airspeed indicator was found with the needle stuck at approximately 41 mph .
The engine and flight controls exhibited continuity and no pre-impact anomalies were revealed .
The engine was modified for airplane use by utilizing a propeller belt reduction drive to reduce the engine RPM 's to approximately 2,500 propeller RPM 's .
The two 30 mm wide reduction drive belts were not found at the impact site .
Searches for the drive belts were made of the surrounding area on two separate occasions but without success .

According to the pilot\/builder , the homebuilt helicopter was in cruise at 1000 feet agl when he initiated a 200-300 foot per minute descent .
After approximately one minute , at an altitude of approximately 500-700 feet agl , the engine lost power .
He executed an autorotation and forced landing into a corn field .
The pilot stated that the helicopter had some forward velocity on landing , causing one of the skids to sink and get caught in the soft terrain .
The helicopter subsequently nosed over and was substantially damaged .
The temperature and dewpoint on the surface was reported to be 42 degrees F and 38 degrees F respectively .
According to carburetor icing charts , the accident flight was operating in conditions favorable to carburetor icing .
Post accident investigation revealed that the carburetor heat system was operating .
The pilot stated that during the descent phase of flight , the engine temperatures were indicating in the low end of the green arc , but he did not notice the carburetor temperature gauge indication .
The Vice President of RotorWay , International agreed to issue an Advisory Bulletin to all registered owners of RotorWay helicopters having the RI-162 engine , informing them of the background of this accident , as well as alternate way of carburetor icing prevention and avoidance .

The pilot taxied the twin engine PA-30 -LRB- 90 gallon fuel capacity -RRB- to a self service fueling island .
There , he fueled the aircraft with 58.15 gallons of fuel at 1503 .
The aircraft was taxied back to the pilot 's hangar area .
Sometime thereafter , the pilot had used a jumper cable to connect the battery of his car to the aircraft 's electrical system at the power receptacle located on the left side of the nose .
Approximately 1732 , with both engines running , the pilot exited the aircraft to remove the chock from the nose-wheel during which the aircraft rolled forward -LRB- east -RRB- and eventually impacted a parked Cessna primarily along its leading edge of the right wing .
The PA-30 's right engine stopped upon wing contact , and the momentum carried both aircraft in a clockwise arc a short distance southeast .
The PA-30 's left engine continued running after the collision .
At a point consistent with the PA-30 's initial contact with the Cessna , a pool of blood identified the spot were the pilot was first struck by the PA-30 's left propeller .
He drug himself under the PA-30 and into a 4:30 position stopping at a point close to the nose-wheel chock which was entangled in the jumper cables .
A witness who spoke with the pilot reported that he remarked that ' I knew better , -LRB- unknown -RRB- was not removed , and the wind caught me . '
The pilot was airlifted to a major hospital and expired approximately 10 hours later .

While the solo student pilot of the Cessna 152 was on downwind leg for landing , the air traffic controller directed the student 's attention to a Boeing 757 aircraft that was preceding the student 's aircraft for landing on the parallel runway .
The threshold of the parallel runway is abeam and 500 feet to the right of the runway the student was to land on .
The controller then advised of a 10-knot quartering headwind from the right , issued a wake turbulence precaution , and cleared the student pilot for the landing option .
Witnesses reported that as the student pilot was on final approach , descending through approximately 100-foot altitude -LRB- agl -RRB- , the aircraft abruptly rolled inverted and crashed short of the runway threshold .
The Safety Board prepared a Study of Wake Turbulence Encounter using data from the Boeing 757 's flight data recorder , tower communication tapes , and tower reported surface winds .
The report concluded that the Cessna 152 descended into the Boeing 757 's wake when the wake was 37 to 41 seconds old .
The student 's flight instructor told the Safety Board that the student , who had 136 hours of dual instruction and 20 hours of solo flight time , had received instruction in wake turbulence avoidance at three points in ground instruction .
Furthermore , the instructor said that training as they had at the air carrier airport , most flights involved wake turbulence avoidance .

The aircraft impacted trees and terrain in a mountainous area about 30 minutes after takeoff .
The wreckage was located in a rocky streambed about 35 feet wide which was surrounded by trees .
The trees were approximately 50 feet high and came right up to the edge of the creek .
There were tree limbs broken off a tree near the top just above and about 10 feet southeast of the impact site .
There were no signs of disturbance on any of the other trees around the creek .
The creek parallels a road which proceeds to a mountain pass about 2 miles to the north of the site .
The debris was contained to an area within a few feet of the aircraft .
The flaps were found set in the full-down position at 30 degrees .
The fuel tanks were ruptured , but there was evidence of fuel found in the carburetor .
The engine could not be turned due to extensive damage ; however , no mechanical anomalies were found during disassembly .
No discrepancies were found in any airframe system .
The density altitude was calculated to be about 7,100 feet .

The commercial air taxi pilot-in-command -LRB- PIC -RRB- was taking a routine competency flight check from an FAA inspector .
The FAA inspector asked the PIC to perform a landing on a turf runway , and to stop short of a designated spot on the field .
The pilot made an uneventful landing , but was unable to stop the airplane prior to the designated spot .
The airplane continued to roll on the turf runway , but soon encountered a large , unseen , hole about midfield .
The nosewheel entered the hole , and the nose landing gear subsequently collapsed .
The PIC reported he had received a standard weather briefing via telephone from an FAA Flight Service Station specialist just prior to the flight , but had received no information about the hole in the middle of the runway .
A review of the Notices to Airmen -LRB- NOTAMs -RRB- disclosed an active NOTAM regarding a 24 inch deep , by 6 feet wide hole , midfield of the runway the PIC landed on .
This NOTAM was not given to the PIC during his weather briefing as required by the FAA Air Traffic Control procedures manual .

After departing and climbing to a cruise altitude of 6,500 feet above mean sea level , the pilot made a power reduction to descend below a cloud layer .
After reducing power the throttle became stuck .
Unable to move the throttle , the pilot diverted to an alternate airport .
With the engine still running the airplane touchdown on the runway , but the pilot was unable to stop the airplane .
The airplane exited the departure end of the runway , traveled 75 feet , and came to rest on top of a hill .
While landing , the pilot thought the throttle was in the idle position .
After the accident he realized it was slightly open .
Examination of the carburetor , which had 12 hours since overhaul , revealed that the throttle shaft could not be rotated by hand , and a punch and hammer was required to remove the shaft .
The shaft was galled where it rested on the bushings .
Both ends of the original shaft -LRB- part number CF 13-1521 -RRB- measured .3105 of an inch in diameter .
A new shaft supplied by the overhaul facility measured .3104 of an inch in diameter at both ends .
Under the supervision of the NTSB Investigator , the original throttle bushings were re reamed with the original router .
Then , the new throttle shaft was inserted , and it rotated freely .
The old shaft was then inserted , but was difficult to rotate .
After removing the old throttle shaft , the bushings were re reamed , using a new router the company had bought after the accident .
Again , the old shaft was inserted , but this time it rotated freely .
The butterfly valve was then installed , and the throttle shaft continued to rotate without difficulty

The captain\/check airman reported that the accident flight was the first officer 's second Initial Operating Experience -LRB- IOE -RRB- training flight after being hired by the airline .
He stated that the first officer was making a visual approach to runway 26 , and on initial touchdown the airplane ` skipped ' and became airborne .
The captain stated that during the initial touchdown he noted that the throttles were not in the fully retarded position .
The captain said that at this point , he closed the throttles and instructed the first officer to maintain attitude as the second touchdown approached .
He said that the auto spoilers then deployed , and the airplane settled onto the runway in a nose high attitude .
The captain characterized the second touchdown as ` firm ' , but well within acceptable limits .
After landing rollout , the airplane was taxied to the gate , and all of the 140 passengers disembarked the airplane uneventfully .
A subsequent inspection by ground personnel discovered a 1 foot by 4 feet scrape located on the belly of the airplane , between station 887 and 941 .

The pilot said he had last received fuel a couple months ago at Porterville , and since then , had only flown the aircraft 1.7 hours .
He kept the aircraft tied down outside .
After rolling out of a left turn , the engine began to run rough and the rpm started to decrease .
He switched fuel tanks , but reported that it did n't help .
He initiated an emergency landing onto an asphalt track and during the approach , collided with electrical power lines that ran perpendicular to the track .
He stated that he had not seen the power lines .
The aircraft impacted the ground and came to rest about 200 feet from the power lines in a 50-degree nose down attitude .
The FAA inspector who responded to the site reported that the fuel tanks were found intact .
Aircraft retrievers drained 1.25 total gallons of fuel from the aircraft .
There was also about 1 gallon of fuel on the ground .
No discrepancies were found during an engine examination .
The fuel vents were clear and unobstructed .
There was no fuel found in the carburetor or the fuel lines .

After washing the airplane , the pilot took off for a short night flight to dry it .
Family members reported that the pilot 's habit was to do a 15 - to 20-minute flight after washing the airplane .
A witness near the accident site saw the airplane 's nose pointed downward and its red and green position lights spiraling around as it descended .
Another witness located closer to the impact location heard loud sustained engine sounds ` like a kamikaze in a dive . '
The airplane collided with trees and hilly terrain and the extensively fragmented wreckage was spread over a 100 - by 200-foot debris field .
The aircraft sounds terminated after a few seconds with the sound of ' 2 cars hitting each other . '
The pilot 's last reported flight review was conducted in a helicopter .
The last pilot logbook entry was dated May 28 , 1997 , the date of the last flight review .
According to the aircraft logbook , the pilot would have averaged about 1.8 flight hours per month in the airplane during the past 11.5 months .
Weather observations reported clear skies with no visibility restrictions .
There was no moon illumination .
The only ground reference lights were from the city , which was located north and west of the accident site .
No preimpact failures or malfunctions were found during the wreckage examination .

The pilot-in-command departed Wilkes-Barre , Pennsylvania , approximately 2145 in the Cessna 172 destined for Essex , Maryland , 125 nautical miles -LRB- straight line -RRB- distant .
He reported a total of 30 gallons of fuel aboard at departure -LRB- 20 gallons having been purchased at Wilkes-Barre -RRB- , and estimated a flight duration of 1.75 hours .
According to the aircraft owner 's manual , unusable fuel was 2.5 gallons per tank , and the maximum fuel consumption for the O-300-A engine at 2,500 feet above sea level is 12.6 gallons\/hour -LRB- worst case scenario -RRB- .
Fuel consumption decreases as altitude is increased and\/or RPM is decreased .
Approaching his destination , the pilot descended from 3,500 feet 1,000 feet , entered the downwind , applied carburetor heat and initiated a left base turn at 700 feet .
He reported that RPM dropped off , and unable to reach the airport , he ditched the aircraft in a river under dark night conditions approximately 2330 local .
A post crash test run of the engine was inconclusive and approximately 6 gallons of fuel was recovered from within the right wing fuel tank with the remaining fluid from both tanks being water .
Temperature\/dew point near the time of the accident was 43\/30 degrees F. and serious carburetor icing conditions may have existed .

The departure was planned for about 0430 .
No record was found that the pilot obtained a preflight weather briefing through an FAA or NWS source .
Surrounding airports were reporting cloud coverage in the area of the accident site between 700 and 1,000 feet above ground level , with visibility 's 3 miles or less .
A terminal forecast for the area predicted visibility of 3 miles in mist , temporarily 1 mile in mist , between 0400 and 0600 .
An airmet was in effect for ceilings below 1,000 feet and visibility 3 miles in fog and mist for the departure area .
The airmet noted occasional ceilings below 1,000 feet and visibility less than 3 miles in fog and precipitation for portions of the en route phase and at the destination .
Mountain obscuration in clouds and precipitation was also forecasted .
The departure airport was surrounded by hilly terrain with tops 1,000 to 3,000 feet above the airport elevation .
Recorded radar data tracked the airplane from 500 feet agl to the accident site at 1,112 feet msl -LRB- about 600 feet above the airport -RRB- .
The airplane was climbing and completed one 360-degree turn , achieving 2,500 feet msl .
The turn continued in a much tighter radius and the airplane lost 500 feet of altitude .
The airplane completed one more turn as it continued to descend to impact about 3 miles west of the airport .
The most conservative weight and balance computation placed the airplane 241.2 pounds over maximum allowable gross weight with a CG location 2.57 inches aft of the rear limit .
No discrepancies were found with the airplane or engine upon inspection .
The pilot did not possess an instrument rating .

The pilot of the incident airplane said that in-flight at 1800 feet above mean sea level , the engine seized , the propeller bolts sheared , the propeller fell to the ground , and that he landed the airplane without any damage to the airplane .
During an inspection of the engine , a ` B ' nut on the oil pressure line to the turbocharger was found loose .
The cylinders in the area of the ` B ' nut were found with a dark , oily substance coating them .
The turbocharger and its housing were found with a dark , charred , oily substance on it .
Number one , four , five , and six crankshaft journals revealed distress .
The number one crankshaft journal was found blue .
The number four connecting rod was found broken and colored blue .
The number four cylinder head was found separated from its base .
The propeller hub and engine crankshaft flange mating surfaces were found with areas of distress .
Three of the studs that held the propeller to the crankshaft flange were found with their fracture initiating on opposite sides of those studs .
A top overhaul was performed 85 tachometer hours prior to the accident .

The CFI indicated that during the flight he was to provide the owner-pilot any needed instruction while the pilot practiced landings .
Also , the CFI planned to further familiarize himself with the pilot 's airplane .
The owner-pilot performed the first landing , the CFI performed the second landing , and the owner-pilot performed the third approach and attempted landing .
The CFI reported that the pilot 's final approach was flown a little faster than normal .
The touchdown occurred nose wheel first , and during rollout the airplane began porpoising .
After the third or fourth oscillation , the CFI took the controls and applied full engine power to stabilize the airplane and to take off .
According to the CFI , he maintained control of the airplane as it became airborne , and he partially retracted the wing flaps .
The airplane climbed , impacted several trees , and came to rest within 1\/4-mile south of the airport .
Neither pilot asserted that any mechanical malfunction occurred with the airplane during the accident flight .
Ranchaero 's runway 15 is 2,280 feet long , and its landing threshold is displaced by 200 feet .
Trees are located near both the approach and departure ends of the runway .
Touch-and-go landings are prohibited .

While in cruise flight at 8,500 feet in dark night conditions , the aircraft 's engine began experiencing a gradual loss of rpm .
The pilot adjusted the mixture setting and applied carburetor heat , but was unsuccessful in restoring full power .
She attempted to divert to the Limon , Colorado , Airport , 14 nautical miles to the east , but the aircraft was unable to maintain altitude .
The airplane impacted the ground , became airborne , then hit the ground again in a rough , open field .
The aircraft then nosed over .
Two examinations on the engine and airframe were performed and no mechanical engine abnormalities or discrepancies were found .
According to reported weather conditions at Limon , the closest weather facility located 14 miles from the accident site , the temperature and dew point were 30 and 25 degrees F. , respectively , with overcast ceilings at 2,500 feet .
According to a carburetor icing chart , the conditions near the time of the accident were conducive to the formation of moderate to severe icing with a cruise power setting .

The pilot departed Lee 's Summit , Missouri , on the morning of the accident to visit family members in Kremmling , Colorado .
He initiated flight following services with Denver Air Route Traffic Control Center -LRB- ARTCC -RRB- and then Denver TRACON while en route and at 1015:31 , services were terminated .
The pilot was advised to re-contact Denver ARTCC for further advisories , but failed to do so .
The last National Track Analysis Program -LRB- NTAP -RRB- radar ` hit ' of the accident airplane was at 1019:23 at an altitude of 12,600 feet .
According to witnesses working several miles east of the accident site , they heard an airplane flying overhead traveling east to west and low to the ground ; however , low cloud cover , snow and poor visibility prevented them from viewing the aircraft .
A squall line 3 miles wide running north\/south was passing through the area , with hail and cloud to cloud lightening .
The mountains to the west and the direction in which the airplane was traveling were obscured .
At 1943 , an alert notice -LRB- ALNOT -RRB- was issued .
A search was initiated , and the aircraft was located at 1430 the following afternoon .
The airplane was found along a 45 degree inclining slope at an elevation of 12,808 feet mean sea level on a glacier along the north face of Arapaho Peak on the east side of the Continental Divide .

The airplane was in cruise flight at 29,000 feet in smooth air with the seat belt sign turned off .
The crew reported two jolts , and the airplane descended 600 feet .
Due to possible injuries , the crew diverted to Bermuda -LRB- BDA -RRB- and landed .
Readout of the flight data recorder indicated cruise flight at 29,000 feet with no change in heading , airspeed , or altitude for several minutes approaching the accident sequence .
The altitude graph showed a slight climb before the airplane descended to 28,400 feet .
The graph line indicated a slow recovery to 29,000 feet with no oscillations .
The elapsed time between the first altitude excursion to recovered cruise flight was approximately 75 seconds .
Of the 155 passengers on board , one passenger received serious injuries and 67 received minor injuries .
The flight was scheduled for Flight Level 330 to Flight Level 370 .
Therefore , no information concerning forecast turbulence at Flight Level 290 was available to the flight crew .
The High Level Significant Weather Prognosis chart for that period revealed that no significant weather was shown in the area where the turbulence was encountered .

The private pilot , who was also a mechanic with an inspection authorization , was landing the airplane from a ferry flight after the airplane had been involved in a previous accident -LRB- see ANC99LA155 -RRB- .
The pilot\/mechanic said that immediately after touchdown , the nose wheel began to vibrate .
The nose gear assembly collapsed , and the engine firewall to which the temporary nose gear assembly had been attached , sustained substantial damage .
Inspection by an FAA airworthiness inspector revealed that a nose landing gear assembly from an earlier model Cessna 182 had been installed without a shimmy damper , and without provision for connection to the steering bungees .
A doubler had been installed on the previously damaged firewall to provide mounting structure for the nose gear assembly .
A review of photographs taken at the first accident site revealed that substantial damage to the left wing , left horizontal stabilizer and left elevator -LRB- including missing the outboard 4 inches of elevator , and the left elevator tip counterweight -RRB- , tail cone and empennage , and lower engine cowling existed prior to the ferry flight .
The FAA issued a ferry permit for the airplane but did not inspect the airplane , nor verify the extent of damage which existed prior to the flight occurring .
The airplane had received its last annual inspection on July 18 , 1997 , 26 months before the first accident .

At 1114:17 , the pilot of YV385CP told FAA ARTCC that he was experiencing an emergency , and at 1114:29 he asked for immediate directions to Bimini .
There were no further communications with YV395CP .
At that time , the aircraft was about 9 miles southwest of Bimini , Bahamas , on a southeasterly heading , at a speed of about 200 knots , and an altitude of about 21,000 feet .
Rescue personnel located debris and fuel at latitude 25 degrees , 47.0 minutes north , longitude , 079 degrees , 23.6 minutes west , consistent with the position relayed by ARTCC .
According to radar information , at 1113:33 , YV395CP 's altitude was about 23,600 feet , and at 1114:58 YV385CP had descended to 2,800 feet .
Sound spectrum analysis of an FAA re-recording of communications between the pilot and ATC , indicated there were electronic signatures present , attributable to propeller noise , at cruise setting , for that type of aircraft .
Records obtained from Venezuela indicated that earlier , YV385CP had been involved in an accident , and had incurred extensive structural damage .
The aircraft had been repaired in Venezuela , and was subsequently flown to the Unites States for additional repairs .
Records obtained from the U. S. repair station indicated that the airplane incurred an extensive maintenance history , with needed repairs including damaged wiring , and leaks in the fuel system , as well as structural leaks , which had lead to several pressurization difficulties .

A witness saw the airplane for about one or two seconds before the airplane went behind a 20 to 30 foot crest in the road .
The airplane 's altitude was about 150 feet above the ground and it was in a nosedive .
The airplane impacted the ground in about a 30 degree nose down attitude .
The engine compartment , cockpit , and left and right wings were consumed by fire after impact .
The empennage remained intact and attached to the fuselage .
The inspection of the wreckage revealed that all flight controls were attached to the airframe and all cables were still intact .
Continuity was established to all flight controls .
The carburetors and ignition system were consumed by fire .
The inspection of the engine did not reveal any pre-impact anomalies .
The propeller blade that was found forward of the engine was separated from the hub and it exhibited the following characteristics : no chordwise scratching , no dents or nicks in the leading edge , and no blade twist .
The composite blade strands that were attached to the blade hub were separated and bent forward of the hub , and not angled opposite the plane of rotation .
The pilot had flown the airplane one hour within the last five months .
The toxicology report indicated the pilot had 10 times the normal dose of ephedrine detected in the blood .
Ephedrine is used as a stimulant , weight loss product , decongestant , or asthma medication .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On January 22 , 2000 , about 1430 hours Pacific standard time , a Mince Jurka MJ77 , N751JR , sustained substantial damage during a forced landing following a loss of engine power near Rio Vista , California .
The commercial pilot\/owner operated the airplane under the provisions of 14 CFR Part 91 and was not injured .
The personal flight departed Stockton , California , en route to Petaluma , California , about 1400 .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed and no flight plan was filed .
The pilot told the Federal Aviation Administration -LRB- FAA -RRB- accident coordinator the airplane was a 3\/4 scale P-51 with a fuel injected automotive engine .
He departed Stockton with 20 gallons of fuel onboard .
While cruising at 3,500 feet the airplane experienced a gradual loss of power .
The engine coolant and oil temperature gauges remained in the green but the power continued to decline .
The pilot attempted to land in a field with the landing gear down , but the gear separated from the airplane and damaged the wing spar .
The original incident classification was upgraded to an accident on February 1 , 2000 , based on assessment of the damage .

The student pilot made several takeoffs and landings prior to departing the traffic pattern .
Witnesses reported observing the airplane flying at an altitude of approximately 20 feet above the trees , and they reported that they did not hear the airplane 's engine running .
A witness stated that the airplane flew by her in a level attitude , and after the airplane cleared some power lines it started to descend .
It then appeared that the airplane 's left wing impacted some trees before it nosed down into the trees .
Continuity was established to all of the 1968-model Beech Musketeer 's flight controls .
Examination of the engine oil pressure and suction screens revealed the presence of metal particles , shavings and flakes .
The oil pressure relief valve plug , spring , and ball were removed .
The ball had metal adhering to it , and the ball seat was contaminated with metal , which according to the manufacturer representative , `` may have prevented the ball from contacting the seat . ''
A large amount of sludge was found inside of the crankshaft .
A teardown examination of the engine revealed evidence of a lack of lubrication .
A review of the airplane 's maintenance records revealed that the engine 's last oil change was on July 2 , 1999 , at a total airplane and engine time of 1,665.0 hours .
There was no record that the oil suction screen or oil pressure screens were cleaned during that oil change .
The last documented cleaning of the oil screens was December 1 , 1996 .
At the time of the accident , the airplane had accumulated a total time of 1,680.92 hours and the engine had never undergone an overhaul .
The engine 's operating manual states that `` at each 100 hour inspection remove suction screen .
Inspect for metal particles ; clean and reinstall .
Inspect and clean pressure screen every 25 hours . ''

On a dark night , en route from California to Arizona , the pilot cruised into rising terrain in a mountain pass .
The crash site , elevation 3,560 feet mean sea level -LRB- msl -RRB- , was adjacent to and about 0.5 miles north of a state highway , elevation 3,000 .
An overcast sky condition existed with cloud bases between 3,200 and 3,400 feet msl .
No one reported witnessing the accident .
A hillside resident located about 1\/3-mile downslope from the crash site reported that , about the time of the accident , his 3,200-foot msl home was shrouded in ground fog .
The pilot was instrument rated but was not current .
His last logged instrument flight was 7 years earlier .
The FAA reported that the pilot did not file a flight plan , obtain a weather briefing , or communicate with any FAA facility during the flight .
The on-scene wreckage examination revealed the airplane initially impacted upsloping terrain in a near level flight attitude .
The airplane came to rest upside down about 750 feet from the initial point of ground impact .
No evidence of mechanical malfunction was found with the airplane .

During the pilot 's preflight , he found water in the right fuel tank and sump , which he drained until they were completely free of the water .
He then started up the airplane , went through all the ground checks , and flew the airplane about 39 statute miles without any problems .
He landed the airplane , and shut down the engine for approximately 20 minutes .
He then restarted the engine , taxied the airplane to the runway , and made a full-throttle , soft-field takeoff .
During the takeoff run , the engine sounded like it was making full power , but the airplane appeared to take longer than normal to build up airspeed .
Once airborne , about 75 to 100 feet , the engine sputtered , then quit .
Approaching an open field , the airplane 's landing gear hit an electrical power line .
The airplane stalled , then dropped from a height of about 25 feet .
The nose landing gear collapsed , and the airplane flipped over .
During a post-accident inspection , about 4 ounces of liquid were found in the carburetor bowl , all of which , was water .
The pilot stated that he had previously had problems with water in the fuel system .

The solo private pilot reported that while in cruise flight , about 600 feet above the ground , the engine RPM suddenly dropped to idle .
Emergency engine procedures did not restore full engine power , and he selected a forced landing area that contained trees .
The airplane sustained damage to the wings , fuselage , and empennage .
An FAA airworthiness inspector who traveled to the accident scene reported that when he inserted a probe into the muffler , he noted ` there was something loose within the muffler . '
The muffler assembly was subsequently removed from the airplane , and shipped to the NTSB investigator-in-charge .
On May 15 , the muffler assembly was cut open in the presence of the NTSB investigator-in-charge .
An internal inspection revealed extensive thermal destruction of the internal baffling material .
The baffling material that remained in the muffler measured about 4 inches by 3 inches .
By placing the remaining material in various position over the exhaust port , the NTSB investigator was unable to position it in such a way that a blockage would occur .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On May 9 , 2000 , at 0935 hours mountain standard time , a Cessna 310Q , N7648Q , sustained substantial damage when the right landing gear collapsed during landing at Falcon Field , Mesa , Arizona .
The airplane was owned and operated by the pilot under the provisions of 14 CFR Part 91 .
The private pilot was not injured .
The personal cross-country flight originated about 0740 from Brackett Field , La Verne , California , and was terminating at the time of the accident .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed and no flight plan was filed .
The pilot reported that he performed a normal approach and landing to runway 22L .
During the rollout , he eased back pressure on the control yoke and retracted the flaps .
He reported that as soon as he applied the brakes , the right landing gear collapsed .
The airplane veered to the right off the runway and struck a runway light .
There was damage to the right wing and right side tail fin .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On May 10 , 2000 , at 1500 hours Pacific daylight time , a Sikorsky S61A , N693CC , experienced a dual loss of engine power on approach to an off-airport landing site and made a forced landing approximately 2.8 miles east of Eureka , California .
The helicopter , owned and operated by Croman Corporation , White City , Oregon , sustained substantial damage .
The airline transport licensed pilot and commercial licensed second pilot sustained minor injuries .
The helicopter was being operated under the provisions of 14 CFR Part 133 as an external load operation .
The local area logging flight originated from a remote landing site about 1349 .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed and no flight plan was filed .
The pilot reported that while performing logging operations , the low fuel pressure light flickered briefly .
He elected to release his load and return to the remote landing site to refuel .
He stated that at that time the helicopter had approximately 250 pounds of fuel per side .
About 90 seconds later while at 300 feet agl , one engine suddenly spooled down .
About 10 seconds later , while the pilot was attempting to maneuver toward an open clearing , the remaining engine spooled down .
The pilot punched the load and entered an autorotative descent .
He landed in a ravine at an approximate 45-degree nose-up angle .
Both pilots egressed without assistance .
The pilot stated that the fuel filter light had not illuminated during the flight .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On May 11 , 2000 , at about 1625 central daylight time , a Cessna 172H , N5107G , registered to a private owner , operating as a 14 CFR Part 91 personal flight , experienced an in-flight fire in the vicinity of Picayune , Mississippi .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed and no flight plan was filed .
The airplane was destroyed .
The private pilot and one passenger reported no injuries .
The flight originated from New Orleans , Louisiana , -LRB- NEW -RRB- about 25 minutes before the accident .
The private pilot stated that he departed NEW at about 1600 , for the VFR local flight .
He was over flying the Picayune Airport at 2,500 feet when he observed smoke coming up from behind the firewall followed by flames .
He immediately turned the fuel selector valve off and made a forced landing to the runway .
He and the passenger exited the airplane uninjured .
The airplane was consumed by fire .

The airplane collided with the high desert terrain during maneuvering flight while on a dual instructional flight .
The accident site elevation was 4,400 feet mean sea level -LRB- msl -RRB- .
The instructor and dual commercial student were scheduled to practice commercial maneuvers , a simulated emergency approach and landing , and system\/equipment malfunctions .
Radar data depicted the airplane was operated in the prescribed practice area , conducting flight maneuvers .
The radar data also indicated that the airplane 's maximum altitude was 8,200 feet msl and its lowest altitude was 6,500 feet msl , the minimum altitude observed by the radar .
The flight was not in radio contact with any ground facility .
At the accident site , the landing gear was found in the extended position , and the flaps were found fully retracted .
Damage to the propeller indicated it was rotating at the time of impact .
Observed evidence at the accident site indicated the airplane impacted with a high descent rate and low forward velocity , in a slight left wing down , and nose down attitude .
No mechanical anomalies were found with the airplane .
Traces of antihistamine , ephedrine , and phenylpropanolamine were found in the blood during the toxicology examination of the flight instructor .

During cruise flight , 10-miles from the destination airport , the engine quit .
The pilot was able to restart the engine after selecting the other fuel tank .
The engine experienced two subsequent power losses before the engine was unable to be restarted .
The final engine failure was experienced 2-miles from the destination airport .
The pilot stated that he executed a forced landing , but was unable to reach runway 19 and impacted the airport perimeter fence during the approach .
The proposed flight was to depart Greenwood Municipal Airport -LRB- HFY -RRB- , Greenwood , Indiana , fly to Waukegan Regional Airport -LRB- UGN -RRB- , Waukegan , Illinois , and return to HFY .
The pilot reported that he had planned on burning 10-gallons per hour , from which he calculated an endurance of 4-hours 48-minutes .
The total duration of the trip , as recorded by the pilot 's global positioning system unit , was 3-hours 52-minutes .
The aircraft 's HOBBS meter indicated that 3.9-hours had elapsed from the initial departure from HFY .
The pilot indicated that his engine cruise setting was 2,350 rpm and that he had leaned the mixture when at cruising altitude .
According to the Pilot Operating Handbook -LRB- POH -RRB- , appropriate for the serial number of the accident aircraft , the fuel flow was listed as 9.5 gallons\/hour for a power setting of 65-percent of maximum power .
The POH lists the maximum useable fuel capacity as 48-gallons .
Utilizing 48-gallons of useable fuel and a flight time of 3.9-hours results in a calculated fuel flow of approximately 12.307 gallons\/hour .
Post-accident investigation failed to find any fuel in the fuel strainer bowl , fuel line leading to the carburetor , or fuel filter located on the electric fuel pump .
The pilot reported that he first experienced engine power interruptions approximately 10-miles north of the destination airport .
There was an airport , Post-Air Airport -LRB- 7L8 -RRB- , Indianapolis , Indiana , located 028.4 degrees-magnetic from the destination airport at a distance of 8.1-nautical miles .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On July 2 , 2000 , about 2052 central daylight time , a Gulfstream American AA5A , N26937 , registered to an individual , made a forced landing in trees near Selma , Alabama , following loss of engine power , while on a Title 14 CFR Part 91 personal flight .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed at the time and no flight plan was filed .
The aircraft received substantial damage and the commercial-rated pilot and one passenger received minor injuries .
The flight originated from Selma , Alabama , a few minutes before the accident .
The pilot stated he was flying from Selma , Alabama , to Monroeville , Alabama .
After takeoff from Selma , while climbing through 3,500 feet , he noticed the engine oil pressure was on zero .
He initiated a turn back to Selma , and in the turn , the engine lost power , dropping to about 1,200 rpm , and he noticed oil on the windshield .
As he approached the airport , he realized he would not make it to the runway , and turned toward a road , for a landing .
He could not make the road , and elected to land the aircraft in trees .

The personal flight departed from the Duluth International Airport -LRB- DLH -RRB- , Duluth , Minnesota .
en route to the Thunder Bay Airport , Ontario Canada .
A ceiling of 100 feet agl and a visibility of 1\/4 sm in fog were reported at the time of the accident .
The airplane took off from runway 09 , turned to a heading of 005 degrees , and climbed to an altitude of 2,700 feet msl .
Approximately two minutes after issuing the takeoff clearance , the tower controller instructed the pilot to contact departure control .
Four seconds later , `` 13Y contacting departure '' was transmitted on the departure frequency .
Four seconds after that , `` 13Y '' was transmitted .
Departure control attempted several times to contact the airplane , but there was no response .
DLH radar showed that approximately forty seconds into the flight , the airplane turned to a heading of 065 degrees and began a gradual descent to 2,500 feet msl .
Twenty seconds later , the airplane climbed to 3,400 feet msl and then began a left descending turn which continued until radar contact was lost at 3,000 feet msl .
Examination of the wreckage revealed no anomalies .
The pilot logged 6.4 hours of instrument time since his receipt of a multi-engine instrument rating on March 24 , 1999 .
The pilot received a third class medical certificate under a special issuance for a history of myocardial infarction .
Federal Aviation Administration toxicology testing revealed the presence of verapamil , a prescription blood pressure medication .

The flight was returning to the Worth County Baptist Hospital in Sylvester , Georgia .
At approximately 0227 , the pilot contacted the LifeFlight dispatcher and reported a Global Position System -LRB- GPS -RRB- location 7 miles west\/northwest of Tifton , Georgia .
No further communication was received from the pilot .
Witnesses in the sparsely populated local area stated that it was a dark night and at about 0230 they heard the helicopter fly over their homes .
They said the sky was clear of clouds and that the helicopter was low , maybe 400 to 500 feet above the ground .
One witness stated that he watched the helicopter fly until out of site then heard a `` pop sound '' he said it sounded unusual and was not very loud .
The flight failed to arrive at its final destination of Sylvester , Georgia .
Examination of the wreckage found it localized in a heavily wooded area , with the skids buried in the ground with the trailing ends protruding upward at about a 70-degree angle .
No pre-existing airframe or engine malfunctions were identified during the post crash examination .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On August 14 , 2000 , about 1252 hours Pacific daylight time , a Beech K35 , N878R , owned and operated by the pilot , experienced an in-flight emergency during cruise flight .
The pilot attempted to make a forced landing on Interstate Highway 40 near Newberry Springs , California .
On final approach to the westbound traffic lanes , the airplane collided with three automobiles .
Thereafter according to witnesses , the airplane cartwheeled , sheered off its wings , engine , and propeller assembly , and came to rest about 75 feet north of the highway .
The airplane was destroyed , and the commercial certificated pilot , who was the sole airplane occupant , was fatally injured .
Initial reports indicated that one of the occupants in an automobile was seriously injured , and another occupant in the same vehicle received minor injuries .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed , and no flight plan was filed for the personal flight , which was performed under 14 CFR Part 91 .
The flight originated from the Eagle Airpark , near Bullhead City , Arizona , about noon .
The airplane was recovered from the accident site and examined .
Oil was observed on components including the face -LRB- rearward surface -RRB- of the propeller blades , the exposed portion of the crankshaft , upper and lower engine cowl , the front windscreen , fuselage belly , and the empennage .
An engine examination is pending .

The pilot stated that during climbout , after reaching about 10 feet above the ground , the airplane 's engine lost power , then restarted .
She further stated that the airplane had started dropping to the runway when it lost power , and it impacted the runway .
One witness , an FAA licensed mechanic , with inspection authorization , stated that he heard and observed the takeoff , and the airplane lifted off about the mid-length of the runway , and had ascended to an altitude of about 10 feet , prior to descending and impacting the runway with a loud popping sound .
He said that after the impact , a go-around was executed , followed by an uneventful landing .
The mechanic said that engine sounded normal , as if it had been developing full power the whole time , with the only a slight fluctuation in sound that corresponded with the propeller strike .
The mechanic further stated that he conducted a post accident examination of the aircraft found that it had incurred substantial damage .
The mechanic further stated that he found no preexisting problems with the aircraft that would have caused the accident .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On September 25 , 2000 , at 1700 hours Pacific daylight time , a Culver LFA , N37820 , ran off the runway , and nosed over while landing on a private airstrip near Ione , California .
The airplane was destroyed , and the certificated airline transport pilot received serious injuries .
The airplane was owned and operated by the pilot as a personal flight under 14 CFR Part 91 when the accident occurred .
The local flight originated from the private airstrip earlier that afternoon .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed at the time , and no flight plan was filed .
A witness reported that the pilot was landing to the east on the east-west dirt strip when the airplane began veering to the right .
After rolling about 300 feet down the strip , the airplane ran off the right side of the runway , struck a fence collapsing the main gear , and nosed over .
The witness also reported that after looking at the airplane 's track in the dirt , it appeared that the right main was more pronounced .
He said that the right main tire also showed evidence of abrasion on its tread surface .
He checked the brakes in the airplane and found that the right brake was `` definitely '' dragging .
He reported that the airplane was equipped with Cleveland brakes in accordance with the applicable supplemental type certificate -LRB- STC -RRB- .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On October 26 , 2000 , about 1105 hours Pacific daylight time , a Grumman American AA-5A , N26470 , was destroyed when it made an off airport forced landing in Gardena , California .
The private pilot\/owner was operating the airplane under the provisions of 14 CFR Part 91 .
The pilot sustained serious injuries and two persons on the ground sustained minor injuries .
The local personal flight departed the airport at Hawthorne , California , about 2 minutes earlier .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed and no flight plan was filed .
Personnel operating the air traffic control tower at Hawthorne noticed the airplane maintaining a low altitude after departure and asked the pilot if he was experiencing difficulties .
The pilot responded he was having engine problems .
Witnesses on the ground reported the engine sputtered a few times before it quit making any sounds and the propeller stopped turning .
The airplane severed a high power electrical cable , then came to rest behind an automotive repair facility and caught fire .
Rescuers used fire extinguishers and a water hose to control the flames and prevent further injury to the pilot while they pulled him from the burning wreckage .
One rescuer , who was transported to the hospital with cuts , burns , and lung congestion , was released that evening .
Another rescuer transported himself for a checkup for lung congestion .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On November 15 , 2000 , at 1050 hours Pacific standard time , an experimental Glasair 1RG , N41AL , collided with utility lines and crashed south of Temecula , California .
The airplane was destroyed , and both the certificated private pilot and his passenger received fatal injuries .
The airplane was operated by the owner\/pilot as a personal flight under 14 CFR Part 91 when the accident occurred .
The flight had originated from Chino , California , earlier that morning .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed at the time and no flight plan was filed .
A witness near the scene of the accident reported to a Federal Aviation Administration -LRB- FAA -RRB- inspector that the aircraft was performing what appeared to him to be a series of aerobatic maneuvers .
He described the airplane as pulling up , rolling , and then diving until out of sight .
At the bottom of each dive he heard the engine accelerate and the airplane would begin another climb .
During the final maneuver , he did not hear the engine accelerate nor did he see the airplane climb again following the descent .
The inspector reported that a postcrash fire had consumed the airframe before he arrived .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On December 7 , 2000 , about 1015 hours Pacific standard time , an Aerospatiale AS-350-BA helicopter , N355NT , was substantially damaged during a collision with a rock and a hard landing from a pinnacle approach near Henderson , Nevada .
Neither the commercial pilot , airline transport rated company check pilot , nor the Federal Aviation Administration -LRB- FAA -RRB- inspector was injured .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed for the instructional flight operating under 14 CFR Part 91 and a company flight plan was filed .
The flight originated at Las Vegas , Nevada , about 1005 .
The purpose of the flight was an FAA monitored 14 CFR Part 135 check ride of a company pilot by the company check airman .
According to the FAA inspector who was onboard and monitoring the check ride , while performing a pinnacle approach procedure into an unimproved site , the right front portion of the helicopter 's skid collided with a large rock .
This occurred with some forward speed .
The resultant hard landing caused substantial buckling of the tailboom assembly .

The pilot and passenger departed on a night IFR flight .
Weather en route was a mixture of instrument and visual meteorological conditions .
When the airplane was 17 miles southwest of its destination , the pilot was cleared for an instrument approach .
At 9 miles , the pilot reported the airport in sight , and canceled his IFR clearance .
The airplane continued to descend towards the airport on a modified left base until radar contact was lost at 3,300 feet msl .
The pilot was in radio contact with his wife just prior to the accident .
He advised her that he was on base for runway 32 .
Neither the pilot 's wife , nor ATC received a distress call from the pilot .
The airplane was located the next morning about 100 feet below the top of a mountain .
The accident site was 7.9 miles from the airport , and approximately 1,200 feet above the airport elevation .
Ground based weather radar recorded light snow showers , in the general vicinity of the accident site about the time of the accident , and satellite imagery showed that the airplane was operating under a solid overcast .
A level path was cut through the trees that preceded the main wreckage .
Examination of both engines and the airframe revealed no pre impact failures or malfunctions .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On February 15 , 2001 , about 1540 hours Pacific standard time , a midair collision occurred between a Cessna 152 , N68763 , and a Cessna 172N , N4686G , over the Pacific Ocean about 6 nautical miles south of the Long Beach Municipal Airport , Long Beach , California .
Both airplanes were rented from and operated by the same flight school , the Long Beach Flying Club & Flight Academy , and both airplanes were destroyed .
In each airplane a Long Beach Flying Club certified flight instructor , and a student sustained fatal injuries .
Witnesses reported that following the collision , both airplanes entered uncontrolled descents , impacted the water , and sank .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed , and no flight plans were filed .
Both airplanes were being operated under the provisions of 14 CFR Part 91 .
The Cessna 152 departed from the Long Beach airport about 1513 , and the Cessna 172 departed from the Long Beach airport about 1500 .
According to information received from the U. S. Coast Guard , wreckage from the airplanes has been located in the channel within 1\/2-mile south of the breakwater .
The depth of the water in this area is reportedly between 60 and 85 feet .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On March 23 , 2001 , about 1550 hours mountain standard time , a Cessna 305A , N5188G , owned and operated by the front seated pilot , ground looped during landing rollout on runway 04 at the Winslow-Lindbergh Regional Airport , Winslow , Arizona .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed and no flight plan was filed .
The airplane was substantially damaged .
Neither the front seated pilot nor the rear seated certified flight instructor were injured .
The instructional flight was performed under 14 CFR Part 91 , and it originated from Needles , California , about 1.4 hours earlier .
The flight instructor -LRB- CFI -RRB- reported that the front seated student held a private pilot certificate , but he had not received an endorsement to fly conventional gear airplanes .
The private pilot had just purchased the airplane , and was in the process of flying it to his Annapolis , Maryland , home with the aid of the CFI .
The flight instructor reported that the private pilot 's landing was normal .
However , when the pilot applied the toe brakes , his left shoe -LRB- size 14 -RRB- slipped off the pedal and became jammed next to the console .
The instructor stated that he yelled at the pilot to release the brake , but to no avail .
As the airplane veered off the runway and control was lost , the right landing gear axle broke , and the right wing impacted the ground .
.

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On March 28 , 2001 , about 1300 Alaska standard time , a wheel\/ski equipped Cessna 180 airplane , N91303 , sustained substantial damage while landing at an off airport site located about 60 miles west of Iliamna , Alaska .
The airplane was being operated as a visual flight rules -LRB- VFR -RRB- personal flight under Title 14 , CFR Part 91 , when the accident occurred .
The certificated airline transport pilot , and the one passenger aboard , were not injured .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed , and no flight plan was filed .
The flight originated about 1215 , from the Iliamna Airport , Iliamna .
During a telephone conversation with the National Transportation Safety Board investigator-in-charge on April 11 , the pilot reported that he was landing to the northeast on a frozen slough .
He said that after touchdown , he noted a football-sized clump of dirt protruding out of the ice in front of the airplane .
He said that in an attempt to avoid the dirt clump , he applied full left rudder .
He said that the nose of the airplane moved about 20 degrees to the left , but the ground track of the airplane continued in a straight line , and the right ski struck the dirt clump .
The right wing struck the surface of the frozen slough and sustained substantial damage to the leading edge and main spar .
The pilot indicated that there were no preaccident mechanical anomalies with the airplane .

The flight departed Tuscaloosa , Alabama , enroute to Gadsden , Alabama .
When the flight did not arrive , search and rescue operations were initiated .
The airplane wreckage was located on April 6 , 2001 , at about the 1,000 foot msl level , on the west side of Village Mountain , near Pinson , Alabama .
Examination of the crash site showed the airplane had flown from a valley , easterly , into rising terrain .
The airplane crashed into trees while in cruise flight and came to rest about 100 feet from the top of the mountain .
All components of the airplane were located at the crash site .
Post crash examination of the aircraft structure , flight controls , engine , and propeller , showed no evidence of precrash failure or malfunction .
The Birmingham International Airport surface observation taken about 13 minutes after the accident was clouds 500 feet overcast with visibility 3 miles in drizzle .
Birmingham is located 15 statute miles south-southeast of the accident site , at an elevation of 636 feet msl .
The person who lives in the residence adjacent to the accident site reported that on the day of the accident the clouds obscured the mountain and visibility was low all day .
The FAA had no record that the pilot had received a weather briefing from an FAA facility .

Delta Airlines flight 1823 , a Boeing 737-800 , was instructed by air traffic control -LRB- ATC -RRB- to hold short of runway 27 , on taxiway D-1 , while American Airlines flight 1547 , a Boeing 767-200 , was instructed to taxi to runway 27 via taxiway D. While taxiing , the right wing tip of the American 767 struck and substantially damaged the left elevator and horizontal stabilizer of the Delta 737 .
The flight crew of the Delta 737 reported that the airplane had been holding short of the runway 27 hold line , with the parking brakes set , when they felt a `` violent shudder . ''
They then looked back and observed the American 767 taxiing past them on taxiway D. The flight crew from the American 767 reported that the sun was creating a glare on the airplane 's windscreen ; however , they had observed the Delta 737 holding short , and the captain `` felt there was more than adequate clearance to continue . ''
According to an airport diagram , taxiway D was located on the north side of , and parallel to , runway 27 .
Taxiway D-1 extended at an angle to the northwest from runway 27 , to taxiway D. The perpendicular distance between the taxiway D centerline and the runway 27 hold short line was 220 feet .
Dimensional data provided by the manufacturer revealed that the overall wingspan of a Boeing 767-200 , and the overall length of a Boeing 737-800 , was approximately 156 feet , 1 inch and 124 feet , 9 inches , respectively .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On April 14 , 2001 , about 1830 eastern daylight time , a Grumman American AA-5B , N81189 , registered to , and operated by a private owner , as a Title 14 CFR Part 91 personal flight , collided with a fence during landing , at a private field in Dade City , Florida .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed , and no flight plan was filed .
The private-rated pilot and one passenger were not injured , and the airplane incurred substantial damage .
The flight originated in St. Petersburg , Florida , the same day , about 1800 .
The pilot stated that he was performing a soft field landing at a private grass strip , on about a 260-degree heading , with a right crosswind .
The pilot further stated that during the landing , he was not in the center of the landing strip , and he was blown into a fence which lined the edge of the strip .
He stated that he tried to add power and execute a go-around , but after the aircraft collided with the fence he committed himself to landing .
During the landing rollout , the airplane 's nosewheel collapsed , and the aircraft slid to a stop , incurring substantial damage .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On April 18 , 2001 , at 1324 hours mountain standard time , a Cessna 152 , N5377M , made a hard landing at the Chandler , Arizona , airport .
The airplane sustained substantial damage ; however , the certificated private pilot , the sole occupant , was not injured .
Sunbird Flight Services , Inc. , was operating the airplane under 14 CFR Part 91 , and it was rented by the pilot for a local area personal flight .
The flight originated from the Chandler Municipal Airport about 1230 .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed at the time and no flight plan was filed .
The pilot told a Federal Aviation Administration inspector that as he completed his approach to runway 22L , he misjudged his height above the runway and flared too high .
The airplane stalled and bounced several times .
On the final bounce the nose gear collapsed .
A postaccident inspection revealed that the firewall had been damaged .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On April 25 , 2001 , approximately 1005 mountain daylight time , a Cessna 140A , N666TC , registered to and operated by the pilot , was substantially damaged when the right main landing gear failed during landing at the Greeley-Weld County Airport , Greeley , Colorado .
The recreational certificated pilot , the sole occupant aboard , was not injured .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed , and no flight plan had been filed for the personal being conducted under Title 14 CFR Part 91 .
The flight originated at Hudson , Colorado , approximately 0910 .
According to the pilot , the purpose of the flight was to practice pattern work accuracy and takeoffs and landings .
The pilot made two low approaches to the runway at Greeley .
On the third approach , he decided to make a landing .
The right main landing gear broke on touch down and the airplane skidded to a halt .
The fuselage and landing gear box were buckled , and the wing spar was damaged .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On May 5 , 2001 , about 1507 hours Pacific daylight time , a Schweizer SGS 1-34 , N7605 , operated by the Phoenix Club , Inc. , Anaheim , California , sustained substantial damage when it landed short of the runway at Krey Field , Adelanto , California .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed during the solo instructional flight , and no flight plan was filed .
The student pilot was seriously injured .
The flight was performed under 14 CFR Part 91 , and originated from the field about 1430 .
The pilot stated that he entered the traffic pattern to runway 09 and attempted to land .
According to the pilot , he misjudged his approach , and the airplane touched down on the sandy terrain an estimated 100 feet short of the runway .
The pilot reported the accident to the National Transportation Safety Board on May 5 , 2001 , following his partial recovery from the injuries he sustained .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On May 11 , 2001 , approximately 1940 mountain daylight time , a Beech 76 , N6002H , registered to EDB Air , Inc. , and operated by Wings of Denver -LRB- a flying club -RRB- of Englewood , Colorado , was destroyed when it collided with power lines and impacted the Blue Mesa Reservoir approximately 17 miles west of Gunnison , Colorado .
The two commercial certificated flight instructors were fatally injured .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed , and no flight plan was filed for the personal flight being conducted under Title 14 CFR Part 91 .
The flight originated from Centennial Airport , Englewood , approximately 1800 .
According to the National Park Service , witnesses reported seeing a twin engine airplane collide with a transmission line and impact the water .
Some witnesses reported the airplane was afire after it struck the popwerlines , and said there was fire on the surface of the water for about 5 minutes .
The airplane sank to a depth between 130 and 150 feet .
Retrieval efforts are expected to take place the week of May 20 .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On May 16 , 2001 , at 1939 central daylight time , a Kirchner Pietenpol Aircamper home built airplane , N25157 , was substantially damaged during a forced landing following a loss of engine power near Tulsa , Oklahoma .
The airplane was owned and operated by the private pilot who was not injured .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed , and a flight plan was not filed for the 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 91 personal flight .
The flight originated from the Sand Ridge Airport near Collinsville , Oklahoma , at 1910 , and was destined for the Richard Lloyd Jones Jr. .
Airport , Tulsa , Oklahoma .
Preliminary information indicates that while en route , the pilot observed a rise in engine oil temperature .
The pilot elected to make a precautionary landing at the Harvey Young Airport ; however , engine rpm decreased to where altitude could not be maintained , and the pilot initiated a forced landing to a bean field about one mile northeast of the airport .
During the landing , the airplane touched down `` hard , '' nosed over , and came to rest inverted .
Examination of the airplane by FAA inspectors who responded to the accident site , revealed that the landing gear had collapsed and partially separated .
The right wing spar outboard of the lift strut was fractured , and the vertical stabilizer was damaged .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On May 16 , 2001 , about 1830 hours mountain standard time , a Piper PA-32RT-300T , N22467 , operated by the pilot was substantially damaged during an off-airport forced landing at Paulden , Arizona .
The private pilot , the sole occupant , was not injured .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed for the business flight operating under 14 CFR Part 91and no flight plan was filed .
The flight had originated at Henderson , Nevada , about 1715 , and was destined for Sedona , Arizona .
En route the pilot experienced engine vibrations that subsequently led to his shutting the engine down and performing an off-airport landing .
An on-scene examination revealed engine oil covering the bottom of the airplane .
A post accident examination of the engine revealed a catastrophic internal failure had occurred .
Further examination revealed an oil filter gasket was pinched and extruded around the base of the oil filter assembly allowing engine oil to escape .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On May 27 , 2001 , at 1255 hours Pacific daylight time , a Cessna 337G , N337GD , sustained substantial damage when it impacted electrical power transmission wires about 5 miles south of Temecula , California .
The owner\/pilot was operating the airplane under the provisions of 14 CFR Part 91 .
The private pilot and one passenger were not injured .
The personal cross-country flight departed Brown Field , San Diego , California , about 1235 , and was destined for the French Valley Airport , Temecula .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed , and no flight plan had been filed .
According to a Federal Aviation Administration inspector , the airplane impacted power transmission wires approximately 120 feet above ground level while over interstate highway 15 .
The airplane 's windshield was broken out , doorposts were bent , and wing struts were damaged .
The pilot continued the flight to his intended destination at French Valley , which was the nearest airport .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On May 30 , 2001 , about 1155 Alaska daylight time , a float-equipped de Havilland DHC-2 airplane , N150PL , sustained substantial damage during a landing on Alexander Creek , about 1.5 miles north-northeast of Alexander , Alaska .
The airplane was being operated as a visual flight rules -LRB- VFR -RRB- local area instructional flight when the accident occurred .
The airplane was owned and operated by the private certificated pilot\/dual student .
The commercial certificated pilot\/flight instructor , and the student , were not injured .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed .
The flight originated at the Lake Hood Seaplane Base , Anchorage , Alaska , about 1115 .
During a telephone conversation with the National Transportation Safety Board -LRB- NTSB -RRB- investigator-in-charge -LRB- IIC -RRB- , on May 31 , 2001 , the owner\/student pilot reported the flight was the second day of instruction , conducted to gain additional experience operating on lakes and rivers in Alaska .
After departure from Lake Hood , the student did some aerial maneuvering , and then proceeded to land on Alexander Creek .
After touchdown on the creek in a northbound direction , the airplane was decelerating with the water rudders in the up position .
The airplane suddenly veered to the right , and the floats collided with the creek bank .
The left wing of the airplane collided with trees along the bank , and the propeller struck the bank .
In a telephone conversation with the flight instructor on May 31st , he reported that he was providing dual instruction to the already certificated student pilot .
The instructor said the touchdown on the creek was normal until the airplane veered to the right .
He said he did not know the reason why the airplane veered to the right .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On June 23 , 2001 , at 1158 central daylight time , a Cessna 182Q , N4834N , was substantially damaged when it impacted terrain following a loss of engine power during the initial takeoff climb near Houston , Texas .
The airplane was registered to Southwestern Gas Pipeline Inc. , of The Woodlands , Texas , and operated by the pilot .
The airline transport pilot , sole occupant of the airplane , sustained serious injuries .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed and a flight plan was not filed for the 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 91 maintenance test flight .
The local flight originated from the David Wayne Hooks Memorial Airport , Houston , Texas , at 1156 .
According to witnesses , the airplane departed from runway 17L and was climbing through 300 feet when the engine `` failed . ''
The airplane was seen making a `` steep , '' 180-degree turn to the right , back toward the airport , when the right wing dropped and the nose entered a nose low attitude .
Subsequently , the airplane impacted ground .
According to the FAA inspector , the airplane sustained substantial damage .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On June 25 , 2001 , about 1930 Alaska daylight time , a float-equipped Piper PA-18-150 airplane , N7050 , sustained substantial damage when it collided with tundra-covered terrain about 80 miles north-northwest of King Salmon , Alaska .
The airplane was being operated as a visual flight rules -LRB- VFR -RRB- cross-country government flight under Title 14 , CFR Part 91 , when the accident occurred .
The airplane was operated by the State of Alaska , Fish and Wildlife Service .
The sole occupant , an Alaska State Trooper who held a commercial pilot certificate , but limited to private privileges for single engine sea operations , was fatally injured .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed in the area of the accident , and VFR flight following procedures were in effect .
During a telephone conversation with the National Transportation Safety Board investigator-in-charge on June 25 , the supervisor for the State of Alaska 's aircraft section reported that the accident airplane was one of two airplanes en route to Iliamna , Alaska , after a brief stop at a remote lake .
He added that both airplanes departed the remote lake about 1925 , and no radio communication was received from the accident airplane after departure .
When the accident airplane failed to arrive in Iliamna , the pilot of the first airplane refueled his airplane , and initiated an aerial search along the accident airplane 's anticipated route of flight .
The airplane wreckage was discovered about a quarter mile southeast of the departure lake .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On June 29 , 2001 , about 1350 Alaska daylight time , a wheel-equipped Piper PA-18-150 airplane , N6881B , sustained substantial damage during a forced landing at a private airstrip located about 2 miles north of Palmer , Alaska .
The airplane was being operated as a visual flight rules -LRB- VFR -RRB- personal flight under Title 14 , CFR Part 91 , when the accident occurred .
The certificated private pilot , and the one passenger aboard , sustained serious injuries .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed , and no flight plan was filed .
The flight originated at the accident airstrip about 1349 .
A witness to the accident reported to the Alaska State Troopers that just after the accident airplane departed from the 800-feet long airstrip , the engine began to run rough and lose power .
The witness said that it appeared that the pilot was trying to turn the airplane around in an attempt to return to the airstrip , and subsequently struck the surface of the airstrip .
The airplane sustained substantial damage to the wings , fuselage , and empennage .
A Federal Aviation Administration -LRB- FAA -RRB- airworthiness inspector from the Anchorage Flight Standards District Office , traveled to the accident scene on June 29 , and examined the airplane .
A detailed inspection of the airplane wreckage is pending .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On July 22 , 2001 , about 1510 eastern daylight time , a Beech BE-36 , N3680U , was substantially damaged during takeoff at the Biddeford Municipal Airport -LRB- B19 -RRB- , Biddeford , Maine .
The certificated commercial pilot sustained minor injuries .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed and a visual flight rules flight plan had been filed for the flight destined for the Westchester County Airport , White Plains , New York .
The personal flight was conducted under 14 CFR Part 91 .
The airplane was departing runway 24 , a 3,011 foot-long , asphalt runway .
According to a Federal Aviation Administration -LRB- FAA -RRB- inspector , when the airplane reached rotation speed , the pilot was not able to pull-back on the control column .
The airplane continued down the runway , until it departed the end of the runway and impacted several small trees .
Post accident examination of the airplane by the FAA inspector revealed that the control column lock was installed in the control column .
The pilot reported 1,150 hours of total flight experience on his most recent application for a FAA first class medical certificate , which was issued on January 30 , 2001 .
He was also a certified flight instructor .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On July 31 , 2001 , at 1347 mountain daylight time , a Bell 205A-1 helicopter , N205BR , sustained substantial damage when the water bucket of a Bell 212 helicopter , N911VR , contacted its main rotor system near Jackson , Wyoming .
The Bell 205A-1 helicopter was registered to Idaho Helicopters , Inc. , of Boise , Idaho , and the Bell 212 helicopter was registered to Rogers Helicopters , Inc. , of Fresno , California .
Both helicopters were being operated by the U. S. Forest Service as public use fire fighting flights .
The airline transport pilot of the Bell 205A-1 and the airline transport pilot of the Bell 212 were not injured .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed for the local flights .
A company flight plan was filed for the Bell 205A-1 and a flight plan was not filed for the Bell 212 .
Both flights originated from Wilson , Wyoming .
According to preliminary information , the Bell 205A-1 helicopter was at an out-of-ground effect hover over a pond near the Snake River using a long line and bucket to pick up water during fire fighting operations .
While the Bell 212 helicopter was operating in close proximity , its long line and bucket got tangled in the Bell 205A-1 's main rotor system .
The pilot of the Bell 205A-1 performed a vertical autorotation to the water , coming to rest with the tail section and part of the fuselage in the pond .
The Bell 212 was not damaged .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On August 6 , 2001 , about 1200 Alaska daylight time , a Cessna 172S airplane , N813SP , sustained substantial damage during an emergency landing at the Quartz Creek Airport , located about 3 miles east of Cooper Landing , Alaska .
The airplane was being operated as a visual flight rules -LRB- VFR -RRB- local area personal flight when the accident occurred .
The airplane was registered to AvAlaska inc. , Anchorage , Alaska , and operated by the pilot .
The private certificated pilot and one passenger , received serious injuries .
Two other passengers were not injured .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed .
A VFR flight plan was filed .
The flight originated at the Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport about 1100 .
According to information provided by an Alaska State Trooper , and information provided by a friend of the pilot on August 6th , the airplane was in cruise flight after departing Anchorage .
During the flight , the airplane began to pitch upward , and the pilot was unable to keep the airplane from climbing .
The pilot decided to make an emergency landing at the Quartz Creek Airport , and prior to landing , shut the engine off .
The airplane touched down on runway 21 and bounced several times .
The airplane then collided with trees beyond the departure end of the runway , and came to rest next to a boat launch ramp in an adjacent campground .
The airplane is equipped with a two axis autopilot .
An airworthiness examination of the airplane is pending .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On August 11 , 2001 , approximately 1100 central daylight time , a Piper PA-28-235 airplane , N235RM , was substantially damaged when it made a hard landing at the Dallas Airpark East near Terrell , Texas .
The airplane was registered to and operated by the pilot .
The private pilot , sole occupant of the airplane , was not injured .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed and a flight plan was not filed for the 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 91 personal flight .
The flight originated at an unknown time .
According to the pilot , he was landing at Dallas Airpark East and touched down `` hard , short of the runway . ''
The pilot then flew to Redbird Airport where the airplane was then later examined by an FAA inspector and a mechanic .
According to the FAA inspector , the underside wing skin was wrinkled , the landing gear struts were damaged , and a engine mount was bent .
In addition , the aircraft mechanic stated that the outboard wing spar was bent .
The event was not reported to the NTSB until September 12 , 2001 .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On August 15 , 2001 , at approximately 1450 mountain daylight time , a Cessna 172N , N733BW , was substantially damaged following impact with terrain in an uncontrolled descent at Meadow Lake Airport , Peyton , Colorado .
The student pilot , the sole occupant aboard the airplane , was seriously injured .
American Aviation , Inc. , of Peyton , Colorado , was operating the airplane under Title 14 CFR Part 91 .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed for the local solo instructional flight that originated approximately 35 minutes before the accident .
No flight plan had been filed .
The student was flying his third solo flight when he impacted terrain near the approach end to runway 33 .
The airplane had wrinkles in the fuselage .
The student 's instructor reported that the winds at the time of the accident were approximately 310 to 320 degrees at 10 knots .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On August 19 , 2001 , about 1300 Pacific daylight time , a LET Blanic L-13 glider , N82AS , sustained substantial damage while attempting an emergency landing at a private airstrip near Enumclaw , Washington .
The glider is registered to Puget Sound Soaring Association , Kent , Washington , and was being operated as a visual flight rules -LRB- VFR -RRB- personal\/pleasure flight under the provisions of Title 14 , CFR Part 91 .
The private pilot sustained minor injuries and his passenger sustained serious injuries .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed , and no flight plan was filed for the local flight .
The flight originated from Bergseth Airstrip shortly before the accident .
According to the tow plane pilot , the glider towrope prematurely released from the tow plane .
He stated that this occurred shortly after takeoff , approximately 100 feet above ground -LRB- AGL -RRB- .
After loosing the towline , the glider pilot initiated a turn to the right .
Shortly after initiating the turn , the glider collided with trees and terrain .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On August 22 , 2001 , about 2100 Alaska daylight time , a tundra tire equipped Piper PA-12 airplane , N7604H , sustained substantial damage during landing at an off airport site , about 18 miles east of Nenana , Alaska .
The solo certificated private pilot was not injured .
The airplane was being operated as a visual flight rules -LRB- VFR -RRB- personal flight under Title 14 , CFR Part 91 , when the accident occurred .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed , and a VFR flight plan was filed .
The flight originated about 2015 , from the Chena Marina Airport , Fairbanks , Alaska .
During a telephone conversation with the National Transportation Safety Board investigator-in-charge on August 23 , the pilot reported that he was landing to the west on a 800 feet long site .
He said that as he neared the approach end of the site , just before touchdown , both main wheels struck a small stand of trees , and the airplane nosed over .
The airplane sustained substantial damage to both wings and fuselage .
The pilot said that there were no preaccident mechanical anomalies with the airplane .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On August 24 , 2001 , at 0715 central daylight time , a Bell 206L-3 helicopter , N350AL , was destroyed when it impacted water during an emergency descent in the Gulf of Mexico , 6 miles south of Cameron , Louisiana .
The helicopter was registered to and operated by Air Logistics LLC , of New Iberia , Louisiana .
The commercial pilot and his one passenger sustained serious injuries .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed for the 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 135 on-demand air taxi flight , and a company visual flight rules -LRB- VFR -RRB- flight plan was filed .
The flight originated from the Air Logistics Heliport , Cameron , Louisiana , and was destined for West Cameron 149 , an offshore oil platform located in the Gulf of Mexico .
According to the pilot , the helicopter was in cruise flight when the it began to `` vibrate and shudder . ''
He lowered the collective control and the engine `` quit . ''
An autorotation was initiated and the floats were deployed .
The pilot attempted to decelerate the helicopter ; however , the controls became stiff and , subsequently , the helicopter `` hit the water hard .
`` According to Air Logistics personnel , the helicopter 's engine and airframe , with exception of the tail boom from the horizontal stabilizer rearward , was recovered to a secure facility in New Iberia , Louisiana .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On September 1 , 2001 , at 1645 central daylight time , an experimental Spears RV-6 , N910RS , was destroyed by impact forces and subsequent ground fire about 1 mile west of Campbell Airport -LRB- C81 -RRB- , Grayslake , Illinois .
The airplane departed controlled flight prior to ground impact .
The private pilot received fatal injuries .
The 14 CFR Part 91 personal flight had originated from Roanoke , Texas , with C81 as the intended final destination .
It is unknown where the airplane had last landed for refueling prior to proceeding to C81 .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed .
No flight plan was filed .
A witness reported the airplane was flying at about 500 feet above ground level -LRB- agl -RRB- and was circling towards the airport when the airplane `` barreled '' left , recover , and then the nose of the airplane went straight down .
Another witness reported seeing the airplane circling before the airplane nose dived into the terrain .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On September 2 , 2001 , about 1430 Alaska daylight time , a tundra tire-equipped Cessna 185F airplane , N177BM , sustained substantial damage while taxiing for takeoff at the King Salmon Airport , King Salmon , Alaska .
The airplane was being operated as a visual flight rules -LRB- VFR -RRB- cross-country business flight under Title 14 , CFR Part 91 , when the accident occurred .
The airplane was operated by Bill Martin , Fish Alaska Inc. , King Salmon .
The commercial certificated pilot , and the sole passenger , were not injured .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed .
VFR company flight following procedures were in effect .
During a telephone conversation with the National Transportation Safety Board -LRB- NTSB -RRB- investigator-in-charge -LRB- IIC -RRB- , on September 7th , the pilot reported that he was preparing to depart and was back taxiing on runway 11 at King Salmon .
He then began a 180 degree turn to depart on runway 29 .
During the turn , the pilot said he heard a scraping sound , and the control yoke wobbled .
The right main landing gear strut collapsed near the axle attach point , and the right main wheel and tire rolled away from the airplane .
The right wingtip and the propeller struck the ground , and the right gear strut was torn lose from its upper attach point .
Further examination of the gear strut is pending .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On September 7 , 2001 , about 1145 Alaska daylight time , a wheel-equipped de Havilland DHC-3 airplane , N254AW , sustained substantial damage during a forced landing about 53 miles east of Cordova , Alaska .
The airplane was being operated as a visual flight rules -LRB- VFR -RRB- business flight under Title 14 , CFR Part 91 , when the accident occurred .
The airplane was registered to Thomas J. Prijatel , and operated by Alaska Wilderness Outfitting Company , LLC , Cordova , Alaska .
The certificated commercial pilot received minor injuries , and the eight passengers were not injured .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed , and VFR company flight following procedures were in effect .
The flight originated about 1115 , from the airplane owner 's remote lodge , located about 100 miles southeast of Cordova , and was en route to Cordova .
During a telephone conversation with the National Transportation Safety Board investigator-in-charge on September 8 , the airplane\/lodge owner reported that while in level , cruise flight , the accident pilot noted a loud bang as the engine began to run rough and lose power .
He said that as the pilot was performing the engine emergency procedures , he smelled smoke in the cabin , and noted that the oil pressure was rapidly decreasing .
During the subsequent forced landing in a marshy , muskeg-covered area , the airplane nosed over , and sustained substantial damage to right wing strut , engine firewall , and empennage .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On September 27 , 2001 , at 1000 central daylight time , a Cessna T188C agricultural airplane , N4629J , was substantially damaged during a forced landing following a loss of engine power while maneuvering near Aiken , Texas .
The airplane was registered to and operated by a private individual doing business as Addison Spraying Service .
The commercial pilot , who was the sole occupant , was not injured .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed and a flight plan was not filed for the 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 137 aerial application flight .
The flight originated from Plainview , Texas , at 0900 .
According to the operator , the pilot was spraying a field , for the bowl weeval eradication program , when the airplane experienced a loss of engine power .
Subsequently , the pilot executed a forced landing to the field .
Examination of the airplane by the FAA inspector , who responded to the accident site , revealed that the left wing spar was bent .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On October 16 , 2001 , about 2030 eastern daylight time , a Cessna 172L , N811P , was substantially damaged while landing at the Northampton Airport -LRB- 7B2 -RRB- , Northampton , Massachusetts .
The certificated private pilot was not injured .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed and an instrument flight rules -LRB- IFR -RRB- flight plan had been filed for the flight that departed the Taunton Airport , Taunton , Massachusetts .
The personal flight was conducted under 14 CFR Part 91 .
According to a Federal Aviation Administration -LRB- FAA -RRB- inspector , the pilot canceled his IFR flight plan when the airplane was about 5 miles south-southwest of the airport .
The pilot performed an approach to runway 14 , a 3,506-foot long , 50-foot wide , asphalt runway ; however , the airplane landed hard and sustained substantial damage to the landing gear , wings , and engine .
Examination of the airplane by a FAA inspector did not reveal any mechanical malfunctions .
The winds reported at an airport about 10 miles south-southeast of 7B2 , at 2055 , were from 080 degrees at 5 knots .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On October 17 , 2001 , about 0520 central daylight time , a Beech 58 , N943V , registered to and operated by Apollo Aviation Company , Inc. , was landed gear-up at the Gulfport-Biloxi International Airport , Gulfport , Mississippi .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed at the time and an instrument flight rules -LRB- IFR -RRB- flight plan was filed for the 14 CFR Part 135 non-scheduled , domestic , passenger flight .
The airplane was substantially damaged and there were no injuries to the airline transport-rated pilot or two passengers .
The flight originated about 10 minutes earlier .
The pilot stated that after the initial takeoff , the cabin door `` came ajar . ''
The flight returned and landed uneventfully where he then closed the cabin door .
The flight again departed and the cabin door `` came ajar again . ''
The flight returned and the airplane was landed `` with the landing gear up . ''

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On October 25 , 2001 , at 1940 central daylight time , a Cessna 152 single-engine airplane N67797 , was substantially damaged when it impacted a fence during a forced landing following a loss of engine power while in cruise flight near Bethany , Oklahoma .
The airplane was registered to and operated by Airone Inc. , of Oklahoma City , Oklahoma .
The private pilot , who was the sole occupant , was not injured .
Night visual meteorological conditions prevailed and a flight plan was not filed for the 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 91 solo instructional flight .
The cross-country flight originated from the Wiley Post Airport , Bethany , Oklahoma , at 1800 , flew to Duncan , Oklahoma , and was returning to the Wiley Post Airport when the accident occurred .
According to the operator , the pilot reported that the engine began to rumble and lose power .
The pilot could not maintain altitude to make it to the airport and therefore , elected to land in a field .
The pilot landed the airplane in a field where it impacted a barbed wire fence .
The pilot reported that he could not see the fence because it was dark .
According to the operator , the airplane sustained structural damage to the empennage and horizontal stabilizer , and the right elevator was torn from its hinges .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On November 2 , 2001 , about 1410 eastern standard time , a Cessna 172D , N36SK , was substantially damaged when it impacted terrain near Argyle , New York .
The certificated private pilot was not injured .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed and no flight plan was filed for the local personal flight conducted under 14 CFR Part 91 .
The pilot stated that he took off from runway 21 at Argyle Airport -LRB- 1C3 -RRB- , Argyle , New York .
Shortly after departure , about 150 feet above the ground , the oil access door opened .
The pilot decided to return for a landing , and made a left turn back towards the airport .
Due to strong winds , the airplane lost lift , and it impacted an alfalfa field about 1\/2 mile from the approach end of runway 21 .
The nose gear , propeller , wings , and fuselage sustained substantial damage .
The pilot added that he did not experience any pre-impact mechanical malfunctions with the airplane .
The reported wind at an airport about 8 miles northwest of the accident site , at 1353 , was from 190 degrees at 14 knots , gusting to 18 knots .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On November 16 , 2001 , at about 0154 central standard time , a Cessna 152 , N89645 , registered to an individual , collided with trees and crashed on the north bank of the Wolf River , near Poplarville , Mississippi , while on a 14 CFR Part 91 personal flight from Ocean Springs , Mississippi , to Brookhaven , Mississippi .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed at the time and no flight plan was filed .
The airplane was destroyed and the private-rated pilot received fatal injuries .
The flight originated from Ocean Springs , on November 16 , 2001 , about 0100 .
A friend of the accident pilot reported that he and the accident pilot departed from Ocean Springs , about 0100 , in separate airplanes .
The friend landed at McComb , Mississippi , about 0230 .
The accident pilot was going to his home at Brookhaven , Mississippi .
When the accident pilot failed to show up for work in Ocean Springs on the evening of November 16 , 2001 , the friend reported him missing to an FAA facility .
Search and rescue operations were initiated and the accident pilot and airplane were located on November 30 , 2001 , about 1630 .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On November 22 , 2001 , about 1330 central standard time , a Enstrom 280FX , N280XF , registered to Tread-Aire , LLC , collided with electrical wires , while approaching runway 13 , at Reeves Airport , Tallassee , Alabama , while on a 14 CFR Part 91 personal flight .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed at the time and no flight plan was filed .
The helicopter was destroyed and the commercial-rated pilot received serious injuries .
The 2 passengers received fatal injuries .
The flight originated from a residence , about 15 minutes before the accident .
The pilot stated he keeps the helicopter at his residence .
On the day of the accident he flew to his sisters house .
After dinner , he departed his sisters house , which is located about 6 miles from the accident site , with the 2 passengers .
They flew around the town of Tallassee , and he then entered on the downwind leg for runway 13 at Reeves Airport .
He turned on base over the Tallapoosa River , and was flying to the south .
He observed a glimmer and remembers seeing power lines .
The next thing he remembers is being in the river .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On December 13 , 2001 , approximately 1255 mountain standard time , a Cessna 172N , N73892 , operated by McAir Aviation , was substantially damaged when it collided with terrain following a hard landing at Jeffco Airport , Broomfield , Colorado .
The private pilot , the sole occupant aboard , was not injured .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed , and no flight plan had been filed for the personal flight being conducted under Title 14 CFR Part 91 .
The flight originated at Broomfield approximately 1230 .
According to the pilot , he was making his third practice touch-and-go landing .
He felt the wind shift slightly as he turned from base leg to final approach .
He aligned the airplane with the runway and approached at 65 KIAS -LRB- knots indicated airspeed -RRB- .
The airplane `` dropped , '' landed hard , and began porpoising before departing the left side of the runway .
The left main and nose landing gears were torn off and the fuselage was buckled .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On December 18 , 2001 , approximately 1045 mountain standard time , a Piper PA-28-235 , N8704W , operated by Cherokee Flyers , LLC , of Grand Junction , Colorado , was substantially damaged when it collided with terrain during landing at Crested Butte , Colorado .
The private pilot and two passengers were not injured .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed , and no flight plan had been filed for the personal flight being conducted under Title 14 CFR Part 91 .
The flight originated in Grand Junction at 1000 .
According to the pilot , he landed on runway 29 and the airplane began veering off to the left .
The pilot applied right rudder but to no avail The airplane collided with a snow bank on the south side of the runway , and the nose landing gear collapsed .
The fuselage was also buckled .
The pilot said that after walking along the runway and locating the point of touch down , he noted a skid mark made by the left wheel and he suspected the brake may have locked .

This is preliminary information , subject to change , and may contain errors .
Any errors in this report will be corrected when the final report has been completed .
On January 3 , 2002 , about 0446 central standard time , a Boeing 747-200 airplane , French registration FGCBG , was substantially damaged following a wing landing gear collapse while landing on runway 15L at the Houston Intercontinental Airport , Houston , Texas .
The cargo configured airplane was registered to and operated by Air France .
The flight crew -LRB- Captain , First Officer , and Flight Engineer -RRB- were not injured .
Visual meteorological conditions prevailed and an Instrument Flight Rules flight plan was filed for the 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 129 international cargo flight that originated from Mexico City at 0245 .
After touchdown and rollout , the airplane exited the runway onto a high-speed taxiway .
The captain , noticing the airplane was `` dragging , '' applied power with minimal aircraft movement .
Further inspection by maintenance personnel revealed that the right wing landing gear had collapsed .
The trunnion was found protruding upward through the wing .
